## 10/03/2023 - Meeting Minutes

- Time: 6:30 PM - 8:05 PM
- Attendees
    - Sophia Gyamfuah
    - Joseph (Joey) Sodergren
    - Steven Cao
    - Nathaniel Ryan
- Meeting was held via Discord voice and video chat.
- Items Discussed
    - Email from Prof. Gscheidle about things we need to change in the SDP
    - New plans for tracking product backlog through converting to User Stories, and then posting all User Stories as individual issues
    - Identified official requirements for meeting minutes
    - Updated a few minor points in the Sprint Execution portion of the SDP with little things that we'd forgotten on our first pass
    - New idea for asynchronous Scum check-ins created by Sophia and Joey
- GitHub Changes
    - Committed above updates to SDP