## 10/31/2023 - Meeting Minutes

- Time: 7:00pm - 8:00pm
- Attendees
    - Joseph (Joey) Sodergren
    - Steven Cao
    - Sophia Gyamfuah
    - Zayd Abushamma
- Meeting was held via Discord voice and video chat.
- Items Discussed
    - Discussed graphics, sprites, and experimented with user inputs such as keylogging.
    - Test Code(Created by joe) was used to test code from last week and how we can modify it to fit our needs. 
    - Scrum Master(Joseph) had assigned tasks regarding the highest priority issues first.
    -  Zayd(Product owner) was assigned a task of modifying the keyboard code located in the keyboard branch to not only catch when a key is pressed but also catch when one is released and use getters to output results. Explained further in detail by srum master(due date 11/7/23).
    -  (Steven)experiement with live graphics demo to replace drawing commands with drawing images loading in sprite kit.(due date 11/7/23).
    -  (Sophia)figure out how to mofify branch so its up to date with main branch, then ping sophia to add or change images. (due date 11/7/23).
      
 
- Github changes/reviews
    - Reviewed and tested nates keyboard code
    - reviewed Sophia's images.
    - added two new userStories
 
- TODO
    - modify/add appropriate user stories
    - What tasks needs to be implemented for next meeting? Which ones are most priority?
    - check up and follow up on team members tasks within the next couple days.
    - Write new tests to ping keyboard system and see if it updates.

